[MUSIC]
Hello and once again, welcome.
In this first lesson,
will cover the fundamentals of SEO.
Get familiar with some of the basic
terminology, and give you
the tools to speak knowledgeably about
SEO as an industry and a career choice.
Which we'll get into more in
depth in the next lesson.
SEO stands for search engine optimization,
which is the practice of improving
a websites visibility in search.
SEO fits into a larger digital
marketing strategy, and
is more focused on obtaining
free organic traffic.
Other digital marketing roles can work
in close alignment with an SEO strategy.
Other roles within the digital marketing
umbrella includes search engine marketing,
which is the practice forbidding for
paid advertisements and search engines.
Social Media Marketing,
which can encompass both free and
paid social advertising and
engagement practices.
Content Marketing, which focuses
on writing concept for blogs,
newsletters and more.
Public relations, which focuses
on acquiring relationships and
promoting newsworthy content and
other related roles.
To fully succeed in SEO,
you will need to have a good understanding
of these disciplines, as well as
the ability to work closely with other
marketing roles for your mutual benefit.
You will even discover many
different schools of thought and
specializations within
the SEO industry itself.
For example, some people like to choose
a specialization such as local SEO,
Technical SEO, or SEO Copywriting.
While others like to have a broader
specialization and work in all areas.
There's even contention among SEOs
about white hat versus black hat versus
gray hat.
White hat SEO as follows searching and
best practices laid out by Google and
other search engines.
While black hat SEOs tend
to go against the grain and
participate in what some might
consider manipulative practices.
Gray hats tend to be
somewhere in the middle.
Black hat SEOs tend to get hit by
penalties more frequently, and
are known for more churn and
burn approach to SEO.
In this course,
we are focusing on white hat tactics,
that will not result in you getting
penalized or banned from search engines.
However, I do advocate spending some time
on your own to learn about the different
SEO schools of thought.
You may also wish to test various
practices on your own websites as this
will help you gain a better understanding
of how search engines and SEO works.
With the SEO, The best way to learn is
through practice and continual testing.
During this course, we will refer
to search engines quite frequently.
The major search engines are Google,
Yahoo, and Bing,
though there are lesser
known search engines.
These include international
search engines such as Baidu,
which is China's major search engine.
Yandex, which is Russia's major
search engine, and Naver,
which is South Korea's
major search engine.
Unless you are working on an international
SEO strategy, and using foreign languages,
you won't work much with
these search engines.
However, it is important
to know of their existence.
When we refer to search engines throughout
the course, we're mostly referring to
Google as Google has the largest market
share out of all search engines.
While it's important to know
of other search engines and
to not put all your eggs in one basket,
SEOs and
clients have a large interest in
optimizing for Google, particularly.
Some SEOs even joked that we are not
search engine optimization experts but
Google optimization experts.
This is because Google is the most
widely used search engine, and
has the best market share.
In addition, by optimizing for Google,
you're following website best practices
that will help your site rank
better across the board.
This is an example of a search page
you'll see for the average search.
Each page has 10 organic results here
in the middle, along the top and
side of the search result, you'll see ads.
These are what search
engine marketers focus on.
These ads been on queries or keywords
similar to what we optimize for an SEO.
So that ad will show up,
preferably on the first page of search.
When we talk about SEO, and
some of the changes that Google makes,
it is important to remember that
Google is a for-profit enterprise,
and these ads are how they make
a great deal of their profits.
Like search engine marketers,
SEOs want their website to show
on the first page as well.
However, we focus on the organic listings.
Our goal is to get our or our client's
website to show as high as possible for
relevant keywords within
these organic results.
It is important to note
how clicks on a result and
visits to a website are dramatically
affected by the position of the result.
Studies have shown that a little over
71% of all traffic to a website is
visits from the first page of results.
Users are more likely to simply
refine their search query,
rather than continue on to
the second page of search results.
In fact, these first five results in
the organic listings bring the highest
percentage of traffic, accounting for
approximately 68% of clicks to a website.
Boosting website just a few positions
in search can boost a website traffic
significantly.
Alternatively, it's important to make sure
your site is healthy and well optimized,
so you don't lose positions or traffic.
The trick, however,
is to make sure you are optimizing for
the right keywords that are most likely to
lead to an engaged visitor who converts.
This will fall into keywords,
psychology and research,
which we will cover an upcoming chapters.